README.md, before:

# Software Engineer Portfolio

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Protfolio.PNG)

### Welcome to Developer's page!

The portfolio is created for any interested IT specialist such as Researcher, Recruiter, HR, PM or Technical Specialist.<br>
The portfolio shows interesting facts about my programming experience and personal qualities.<br>
The portfolio consists of additional topics which are NOT included in my CV.

Here we go:

- [About](#about)
- [Project Feedbacks](#project-feedbacks)
- [Project Challenges](#project-challenges)
- [Leadership Experience](#leadership-experience)
- [Self-Education](#self-education)
- [Project Changing](#project-changing)

# About

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Software-Engineer.PNG)

Having **Java** as a primary skill, I've been doing commercial development for **5 years** so far.
I worked on different apps such as Backend, REST API, Cloud, Frontend, Desktop.
There I've got considerable experience with Java 8, JavaEE, Spring, AWS, SQL, NoSQL, JavaFX, Git, Windows.
Regarding responsibilities, I'm familiar with all the main stages of engineering.
Working on Technical Research, Software Design, Implementation, Testing, Deployment,
I showed quite efficient work on the Full Cycle development.

Thanks to fluent **English** and good soft skills, I'm an efficient Team Player even in case of international teams.
In fact, I've been communicating with foreign colleagues and stakeholders for more than 2 years already.
I consider myself as a responsible person and also can take care about others. 
I have production experience of **Team Leading** and was a Mentor for education programs.
In addition to team work, I have more than 2 years of independent work as a **Key Developer**.

I'm always open to **feedback** about my work. 
On each project, my professional and personal qualities met or even exceeded expectations.
At the same time, I see the ways for self-improvement and continue working on my hard, soft, and leadership skills.
Currently, I'm recognized as a Senior and for the future I plan to take Lead Software Engineer position.

# Project Feedbacks

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Feedback.jpg)

#### EPAM Systems
  - March 2023. 
    [Customer Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2023-March-EPAM-Summary-Feedback-from-Customers.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Half-year summary as part of constant feedback process. 
    Collected from **Product Owner**, **Scrum Master** (customer side) and **Delivery Manager** (EPAM side) feedbacks.
    According to my Resource Manager (who shared more details in person), 
    feedbacks were quite positive and customers appreciated my contribution.
    As a result, I was paid an extra bonus.
  
  - September 2022. 
    [Customer Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2022-September-EPAM-Summary-Feedback-from-Customers.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Half-year summary as part of constant feedback process.
    Collected from **Product Owner**, **Scrum Master**, **Tech Lead** (customer side) feedbacks.
    General impression is good: I did great job and also had some points to improve.
  
  - June 2022. 
    [Level-up Feedback 1](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2022-EPAM-LevelUp-Feedback-from-TeamLead.PNG) 
    and [Level-up Feedback 2](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2022-EPAM-LevelUp-Feedback-from-TechLead.PNG)<br>
    *Description*: 
    Part of assessment preparation. When I was applying for Senior level, 
    I asked **Team Lead** and **Tech Lead** (EPAM side) for feedback.
    This helped assessment committee to decide whether I'm ready to be promoted.
    According to these feedbacks I was recognized as a Senior.
    Finally, I got promoted.

  - June 2021. 
    [Project Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2021-June-Simple-Project-Feedback-from-TeamLead.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Half-year simple one as part of constant feedback process.
    Asked current project **Team Lead** (EPAM side).
    Summing up, I was recognized as an excellent Key Developer and good Team Player.
  
  - January 2021. 
    [Project Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2021-January-Simple-Project-Feedback-from-Dev.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Simple one as part of constant feedback process.
    Asked current project **Developer** (EPAM side) where I played Lead Developer role.
    That time, I didn't follow some coding best practices.
    In general, I was friendly Lead and quite effective Developer at the same time.

#### Institute of Radio Astronomy

  - September 2020. 
    [Quit Project Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2020-September-RINANU-Quit-Project-Feedback-from-ProjectManager.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Quit feedback to sum up the entire work path on a project. 
    Asked **Project Manager** with whom I worked most of the time.
    There are original and English versions.
    Leaving this project, I left successfully implemented application as well as positive impression about myself.

# Project Challenges

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Star-Technique.jpg)

Overview of the most challenging tasks, taken actions and achieved results:

#### 2021 - My first App Improvement

Challenges with app improvement to make it ready for production:<br>
Bug Fixing, Codebase Refactoring, Extension, Local Testing, Remote Debug, Knowledge Transfer.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2021-MY-FIRST-APP-IMPROVEMENT.md) for details.

#### 2020 - My first project at EPAM

Challenges with wide range of responsibilities:<br>
Requirements Clarification & Demo, Research, Development, Team Leading.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2020-MY-FIRST-PROJECT-AT-EPAM.md) for details.

#### 2019 - My first Complex App

Challenges with implementation of multifunctional app from scratch:<br>
Technologies Research, Requirements Clarification, Architecture, Development, Maintenance and Expansion,
Integration Testing, Acceptance Testing, Packaging and Cross-Platforming.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2019-MY-FIRST-COMPLEX-APP.md) for details.

#### 2018 - My first Commercial App

Challenge with finding decoding algorithm.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2018-MY-FIRST-COMMERCIAL-APP.md) for details.

# Leadership Experience

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Leader.jpg)

Cases where I organized and supported processes for work and education:

#### Project Team Leading

- Oct 2021 - Dec 2021. Lead Developer on a 3-month project.<br>
  Organized work in a team of 3 developers. Was in charge of work planning, meeting holding, development support.

#### EPAM Educational Programs

Was a Mentor in Pre-Production programs:

- Jul 2022 - Oct 2022. \[RD Java Lab Summer 2022\]. Supported 5 students.
- Oct 2021 - Feb 2022. \[RD Java Lab Autumn 2021\]. Supported 2 students. 

Educational program consists of theoretical lectures and practical tasks.
During task completion each Mentee is assigned to specific Mentor.
That time Mentor supports students by organizing one-to-one sessions to discuss 
task requirements and implementation way, answer questions, check progress, accept tasks.
Also, there is offline support using chatting, regular code review and app local testing.
Finally, Mentor provides feedback on the Mentees performance.

#### Math Teaching

- 2017\. Private Tutor: High Math for students. Supported 4 students.
- 2016\. Private Tutor: Mathematics for schoolchildren. Supported 8 students.

# Self-education

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Self-Education.PNG)

Working on my hard and soft skills, have next achievements so far:

#### EPAM English classes. Completed 10 live trainings:

  - Jul 2023 - Sep 2023 (20 sessions). Presenting in English (B1+/B2/B2+).
  - Apr 2023 - Jul 2023 (26 sessions). English for Virtual Communication (B1+/B2/B2+).
  - Oct 2022 - Apr 2023 (41 sessions). Business English (B1+/B2).
  - Sep 2022 - Nov 2022 (17 sessions). IT Grammar in English (B1+/B2).
  - Jun 2022 - Jul 2022 (8 sessions). English for Socializing (B1/B1+).
  - Mar 2022 - Jul 2022 (17 sessions). IT Grammar in English (A2+/B1).
  - Jan 2022 - Feb 2022 (10 sessions). Project Interviews in English (A2+/B1/B1+).
  - Nov 2021 - Dec 2021 (11 sessions). Breaking the Language Barrier in English (A2+/B1).
  - Apr 2021 - Oct 2021 (40 sessions). Business English (A2+/B1).
  - Mar 2021 - May 2022 (10 sessions). English Speaking Club (B1/B2/C1/C2).

#### LinkedIn Learning. Completed 27 self-study courses:

  - Sep 2023. [Java Database Access with Hibernate](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/java-database-access-with-hibernate)
  - Sep 2023. [Spring 5.0 and Spring Boot 2.0 New Features](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-5-0-and-spring-boot-2-0-new-features)
  - Sep 2023. [Spring: Spring Data 2](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-spring-data-2-2017)
  - Sep 2023. [AWS for Developers: SNS, SQS, and SWF](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/aws-for-developers-sns-sqs-and-swf)
  - Sep 2023. [Advanced Spring: Effective Integration Testing with Spring Boot](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/advanced-spring-effective-integration-testing-with-spring-boot)
  - Sep 2023. [Microsoft Azure Fundamentals](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/exam-prep-microsoft-azure-fundamentals-az-900-2020)
  - Sep 2023. [Learning Kubernetes](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-kubernetes-16086900)
  - Aug 2023. [Learning Docker](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-docker-17236240)
  - Aug 2023. [SQL Essential Training](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/sql-essential-training-20685933)
  - Aug 2023. [Creating Your First Spring Boot Microservice](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/creating-your-first-spring-boot-microservice)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Spring-Boot-Demo-Microservice-with-MongoDB) for exercises.
  - Apr 2023. [Learning REST APIs](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-rest-apis).
  - Mar 2023. [SQL vs NoSQL: Which Database Type Is Right for You?](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/sql-vs-nosql-which-database-type-is-right-for-you)
  - Sep 2022. [Spring Boot 2.0 Essential Training](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-boot-2-0-essential-training-2).
  - Sep 2022. [Learning Spring with Spring Boot](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-spring-with-spring-boot-13886371)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Spring-Boot-Demo-Application) for exercises.
  - Sep 2022. [Git: Branches, Merges, and Remotes](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/git-branches-merges-and-remotes).
  - Aug 2022. [AWS Essential Training for Developers](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/aws-essential-training-for-developers-2019).
  - Aug 2022. [Git Essential Training: The Basics](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/git-essential-training-the-basics-2019).
  - Jul 2022. [Java EE: Servlets and JavaServer Pages (JSP)](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/java-ee-servlets-and-javaserver-pages-jsp).
  - Nov 2021. [Learning Terraform](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-terraform-2020).
  - Oct 2021. [Building Full-Stack Apps with React and Spring](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/building-full-stack-apps-with-react-and-spring)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Full-Stack-Demo-Application-with-Spring-and-React) for exercises.
  - Oct 2021. [Advanced SQL for Query Tuning and Performance Optimization](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/advanced-sql-for-query-tuning-and-performance-optimization).
  - Aug 2021. [Spring: Framework in Depth](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-framework-in-depth-2)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Spring-Demo-Application) for exercises.
  - Aug 2021. [Spring: Test-Driven Development with JUnit](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-test-driven-development-with-junit).
  - Aug 2021. [Introduction to Linux](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/introduction-to-linux).
  - Aug 2021. [Programming Foundations: Algorithms](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/programming-foundations-algorithms)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Java-SDK-Research-and-Play) for exercises.
  - Aug 2021. [Practical Test-Driven Development for Java Programmers](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/practical-test-driven-development-for-java-programmers).
  - Jul 2021. [Learning Cloud Computing: Core Concepts](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-cloud-computing-core-concepts-13966302).

#### EPAM Learning. Completed educational program:

- Jun 2022 - Aug 2022. Cloud Platforms for developers - AWS Developer.<br>
  Completed 7 self-study modules with a Mentor review:
    - AWS Essential, AWS Account
    - IAM, S3, EC2, VPC
    - Cloud Formation

#### Book Library

- 2023\. Designing Data-Intensive Applications - Martin Kleppmann.
- 2020\. Java XML and JSON: Document processing for Java SE - Jeff Friesen.
- 2019\. Kotlin - Head First.
- 2019\. Android Development - Head First.
- 2019\. Design Patterns - Head First.
- 2019\. Pro JavaFX 8: Building Desktop, Mobile, and Embedded Java Clients - Apress.
- 2018\. Learn JavaFX 8: Building User Experience and Interfaces - Kishori Sharan.
- 2018\. JavaFX 8: Introduction By Example - Apress.
- 2018\. Java: A Beginner's Guide - Herbert Schildt.
- 2018\. Effective Java - Joshua Bloch.
- 2018\. The C++ Programming Language - Bjarne Stroustrup.
- 2018\. The C Programming Language - Brian W.Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie.

# Project Changing

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Handshake.PNG)

My thoughts on changing the project: 
- When is the right time to look for new opportunities?
- What to check to find the best fit?

Personally, I really like stable companies and projects where I can work for a long period, e.g. 2 years and more.
Long term assignment is profitable for both: developer and company.
For example, working on large enterprise apps, first you have to spend some time and resources to get to know the project.
It's kinda an investment that later brings benefits such as satisfaction from your work, 
possibilities to make bigger impact and finally, bringing more value to the project.
Even when building large app from scratch, you need to define the architecture and establish the development processes 
that is also beneficial only in long term run.

Such commitment also has other side.
That's great if you are always excited about work you do.
However, at some projects, at some point (for example in 2 years of development),
you may find yourself doing the same job day-to-day with no opportunity to grow.
In case this can't be changed due to project limitations I would consider to switch to another project.

I realize importance and risks of such decision for myself, my current project and future project.
In such cases, first of all, I talk about my concerns with project managers.
If we can't find solution, there are many other projects to join.
I try to find the best fit and finally accept the offer very carefully.
Joining new project is weighted decision that means I commit for long term cooperation.

So, I have some points to check when applying for new projects:

- Why is position open?
- Project Domain: what is it about? what is outcome? which impact does it make?
- Tech Stack, e.g. key language, frameworks, versions, databases.
- Development Type, e.g. full cycle, support, migration.
- Development Responsibilities, e.g. design, research, implementation, delivery.
- What do regular tasks look like? Any specific work scope for newcomer? Any specific release dates? Any urgent deadlines?
- Development Methodology, e.g. Scrum. Any specific processes? How many regular meetings?
- How is the task formulated? How developer is involved in requirements clarification, testing and deployment?
- Project Team, e.g. size, kinds of specialists, presents of local and foreign colleagues.
- Interaction with customers and English-speaking colleagues.
- Is work laptop provided? Which OS, e.g. Windows, Linux, Mac.
- Project Tools, e.g. IDE, VCS, apps for chatting, online meetings, task tracking.
- Are there less experienced colleagues to play mentor role?
- Are there more experienced colleagues to ask for help?
- Work hours (time zone dependencies).
- General work tempo: Any constant pressure to be fast? Any lack of tasks or presence of complex processes, so it gets slow?
- Is there overtime work? If so, is it compensated?
- Is there activity tracker, e.g. mouse movement tracking, screen capture?
- Onboarding: Are there any flow and materials to help newcomer understand project? How much time allocated?
- Probation period: Is it present? How long does it take? In which period is it expected for newcomer to get started with regular pace?
- Project Stability: Will there be work in 1 year?
- Project Perspectives: Is there space to grow and take more complex tasks and next level responsibilities?
- Office, its location, workplace and benefits.
- Non-project activities, e.g. team-buildings, events, conferences, hackathons.
- Education support, sport compensation, health insurance.
- Are there any business trip? (especially interesting if it helps you meet your implementation in real life)
- Additional bonuses for good performance, successfully released features, resolving additional tasks asked by customer, providing better solution. 
- Compensation Range for the position.
- Compensation Review: What to do to get it? How often? Regular or by asking? Which amount is it possible to have in 2 years?

# Programming Habits

Some tips and approaches for programmers that I noticed and personally found useful:

- Work from office helps be more efficient and keep work-life balance.
  Also, it's more secure and company is less concerned about employee's doings.
- Refactoring helps fix bugs.
  For example, in `Java` it's nice to use `Stream API`, but sometimes it's overcomplicated.
  When we have many invocations in a row, such code is not possible to understand.
  I would rather have plain Java implementation then complex constructions.
  This way, refactoring helped me several times to find an issue.
- Writing documentation helps better understand what you've done,
  structurise gained knowledge and release memory.
  Once important details are covered, you can forget about it and easily switch to the next task.
- Adjusting the video playback speed helps learn quickly.
  I like watching tutorials, but sometimes it's very detailed and takes much time.
  Advice is quite simple but helped me a lot.
  Most recordings have good quality, so it's possible to speed up playback to 1.5 without losing understanding.
  With this my learning becomes faster and as a result, I feel comfortable to continue learning this way.

Commit message:

update page: add Project Challenge

README.md, after:

# Software Engineer Portfolio

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Protfolio.PNG)

### Welcome to Developer's page!

The portfolio is created for any interested IT specialist such as Researcher, Recruiter, HR, PM or Technical Specialist.<br>
The portfolio shows interesting facts about my programming experience and personal qualities.<br>
The portfolio consists of additional topics which are NOT included in my CV.

Here we go:

- [About](#about)
- [Project Feedbacks](#project-feedbacks)
- [Project Challenges](#project-challenges)
- [Leadership Experience](#leadership-experience)
- [Self-Education](#self-education)
- [Project Changing](#project-changing)

# About

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Software-Engineer.PNG)

Having **Java** as a primary skill, I've been doing commercial development for **5 years** so far.
During this time I've come across different apps such as Backend, REST API, Cloud, Frontend, Desktop.
Working on these apps, I've got considerable experience with Java 8, JavaEE, Spring, AWS, SQL, NoSQL, JavaFX, Git, Windows.
Regarding responsibilities, I'm familiar with all the main stages of engineering.
Working on Technical Research, Software Design, Implementation, Testing, Deployment,
I showed quite efficient work on the Full Cycle development.

Thanks to fluent **English** and good soft skills, I'm an efficient Team Player even in case of international teams.
In fact, I've been communicating with foreign colleagues and stakeholders for more than 2 years already.
I consider myself as a responsible person and also can take care about others. 
I have production experience of **Team Leading** and was a Mentor for education programs.
In addition to team work, I have more than 2 years of independent work as a **Key Developer**.

I'm always open to **feedback** about my work. 
On each project, my professional and personal qualities met or even exceeded expectations.
At the same time, I see the ways for self-improvement and continue working on my hard, soft, and leadership skills.
Currently, I'm recognized as a Senior and for the future I plan to take Lead Software Engineer position.

# Project Feedbacks

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Feedback.jpg)

#### EPAM Systems
  - March 2023. 
    [Customer Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2023-March-EPAM-Summary-Feedback-from-Customers.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Half-year summary as part of constant feedback process. 
    Collected from **Product Owner**, **Scrum Master** (customer side) and **Delivery Manager** (EPAM side) feedbacks.
    According to my Resource Manager (who shared more details in person), 
    feedbacks were quite positive and customers appreciated my contribution.
    As a result, I was paid an extra bonus.
  
  - September 2022. 
    [Customer Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2022-September-EPAM-Summary-Feedback-from-Customers.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Half-year summary as part of constant feedback process.
    Collected from **Product Owner**, **Scrum Master**, **Tech Lead** (customer side) feedbacks.
    General impression is good: I did great job and also had some points to improve.
  
  - June 2022. 
    [Level-up Feedback 1](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2022-EPAM-LevelUp-Feedback-from-TeamLead.PNG) 
    and [Level-up Feedback 2](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2022-EPAM-LevelUp-Feedback-from-TechLead.PNG)<br>
    *Description*: 
    Part of assessment preparation. When I was applying for Senior level, 
    I asked **Team Lead** and **Tech Lead** (EPAM side) for feedback.
    This helped assessment committee to decide whether I'm ready to be promoted.
    According to these feedbacks I was recognized as a Senior.
    Finally, I got promoted.

  - June 2021. 
    [Project Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2021-June-Simple-Project-Feedback-from-TeamLead.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Half-year simple one as part of constant feedback process.
    Asked current project **Team Lead** (EPAM side).
    Summing up, I was recognized as an excellent Key Developer and good Team Player.
  
  - January 2021. 
    [Project Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2021-January-Simple-Project-Feedback-from-Dev.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Simple one as part of constant feedback process.
    Asked current project **Developer** (EPAM side) where I played Lead Developer role.
    That time, I didn't follow some coding best practices.
    In general, I was friendly Lead and quite effective Developer at the same time.

#### Institute of Radio Astronomy

  - September 2020. 
    [Quit Project Feedback](resources/pictures/feedbacks/2020-September-RINANU-Quit-Project-Feedback-from-ProjectManager.PNG)<br>
    *Description:* 
    Quit feedback to sum up the entire work path on a project. 
    Asked **Project Manager** with whom I worked most of the time.
    There are original and English versions.
    Leaving this project, I left successfully implemented application as well as positive impression about myself.

# Project Challenges

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Star-Technique.jpg)

Overview of the most challenging tasks, taken actions and achieved results:

#### 2021 - My first Cloud Development

Challenges with AWS-based Microservice development:<br>
POC, refactoring, end-to-end testing, deployment automation.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2021-MY-FIRST-CLOUD-DEVELOPMENT.md) for details.

#### 2021 - My first App Improvement

Challenges with app support to release first stable version:<br>
Bug Fixing, Codebase Refactoring, Extension, Local Testing, Remote Debug, Knowledge Transfer.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2021-MY-FIRST-APP-IMPROVEMENT.md) for details.

#### 2020 - My first project at EPAM

Challenges with wide range of responsibilities:<br>
Requirements Clarification & Demo, Research, Development, Team Leading.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2020-MY-FIRST-PROJECT-AT-EPAM.md) for details.

#### 2019 - My first Complex App

Challenges with implementation of multifunctional app from scratch:<br>
Technologies Research, Requirements Clarification, Architecture, Development, Maintenance and Expansion,
Integration Testing, Acceptance Testing, Packaging and Cross-Platforming.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2019-MY-FIRST-COMPLEX-APP.md) for details.

#### 2018 - My first Commercial App

Challenge with finding decoding algorithm.<br>
Please, visit [this page](resources/projects/2018-MY-FIRST-COMMERCIAL-APP.md) for details.

# Leadership Experience

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Leader.jpg)

Cases where I organized and supported processes for work and education:

#### Project Team Leading

- Oct 2021 - Dec 2021. Lead Developer on a 3-month project.<br>
  Organized work in a team of 3 developers. Was in charge of work planning, meeting holding, development support.

#### EPAM Educational Programs

Was a Mentor in Pre-Production programs:

- Jul 2022 - Oct 2022. \[RD Java Lab Summer 2022\]. Supported 5 students.
- Oct 2021 - Feb 2022. \[RD Java Lab Autumn 2021\]. Supported 2 students. 

Educational program consists of theoretical lectures and practical tasks.
During task completion each Mentee is assigned to specific Mentor.
That time Mentor supports students by organizing one-to-one sessions to discuss 
task requirements and implementation way, answer questions, check progress, accept tasks.
Also, there is offline support using chatting, regular code review and app local testing.
Finally, Mentor provides feedback on the Mentees performance.

#### Math Teaching

- 2017\. Private Tutor: High Math for students. Supported 4 students.
- 2016\. Private Tutor: Mathematics for schoolchildren. Supported 8 students.

# Self-education

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Self-Education.PNG)

Working on my hard and soft skills, have next achievements so far:

#### EPAM English classes. Completed 10 live trainings:

  - Jul 2023 - Sep 2023 (20 sessions). Presenting in English (B1+/B2/B2+).
  - Apr 2023 - Jul 2023 (26 sessions). English for Virtual Communication (B1+/B2/B2+).
  - Oct 2022 - Apr 2023 (41 sessions). Business English (B1+/B2).
  - Sep 2022 - Nov 2022 (17 sessions). IT Grammar in English (B1+/B2).
  - Jun 2022 - Jul 2022 (8 sessions). English for Socializing (B1/B1+).
  - Mar 2022 - Jul 2022 (17 sessions). IT Grammar in English (A2+/B1).
  - Jan 2022 - Feb 2022 (10 sessions). Project Interviews in English (A2+/B1/B1+).
  - Nov 2021 - Dec 2021 (11 sessions). Breaking the Language Barrier in English (A2+/B1).
  - Apr 2021 - Oct 2021 (40 sessions). Business English (A2+/B1).
  - Mar 2021 - May 2022 (10 sessions). English Speaking Club (B1/B2/C1/C2).

#### LinkedIn Learning. Completed 27 self-study courses:

  - Sep 2023. [Java Database Access with Hibernate](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/java-database-access-with-hibernate)
  - Sep 2023. [Spring 5.0 and Spring Boot 2.0 New Features](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-5-0-and-spring-boot-2-0-new-features)
  - Sep 2023. [Spring: Spring Data 2](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-spring-data-2-2017)
  - Sep 2023. [AWS for Developers: SNS, SQS, and SWF](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/aws-for-developers-sns-sqs-and-swf)
  - Sep 2023. [Advanced Spring: Effective Integration Testing with Spring Boot](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/advanced-spring-effective-integration-testing-with-spring-boot)
  - Sep 2023. [Microsoft Azure Fundamentals](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/exam-prep-microsoft-azure-fundamentals-az-900-2020)
  - Sep 2023. [Learning Kubernetes](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-kubernetes-16086900)
  - Aug 2023. [Learning Docker](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-docker-17236240)
  - Aug 2023. [SQL Essential Training](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/sql-essential-training-20685933)
  - Aug 2023. [Creating Your First Spring Boot Microservice](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/creating-your-first-spring-boot-microservice)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Spring-Boot-Demo-Microservice-with-MongoDB) for exercises.
  - Apr 2023. [Learning REST APIs](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-rest-apis).
  - Mar 2023. [SQL vs NoSQL: Which Database Type Is Right for You?](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/sql-vs-nosql-which-database-type-is-right-for-you)
  - Sep 2022. [Spring Boot 2.0 Essential Training](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-boot-2-0-essential-training-2).
  - Sep 2022. [Learning Spring with Spring Boot](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-spring-with-spring-boot-13886371)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Spring-Boot-Demo-Application) for exercises.
  - Sep 2022. [Git: Branches, Merges, and Remotes](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/git-branches-merges-and-remotes).
  - Aug 2022. [AWS Essential Training for Developers](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/aws-essential-training-for-developers-2019).
  - Aug 2022. [Git Essential Training: The Basics](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/git-essential-training-the-basics-2019).
  - Jul 2022. [Java EE: Servlets and JavaServer Pages (JSP)](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/java-ee-servlets-and-javaserver-pages-jsp).
  - Nov 2021. [Learning Terraform](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-terraform-2020).
  - Oct 2021. [Building Full-Stack Apps with React and Spring](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/building-full-stack-apps-with-react-and-spring)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Full-Stack-Demo-Application-with-Spring-and-React) for exercises.
  - Oct 2021. [Advanced SQL for Query Tuning and Performance Optimization](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/advanced-sql-for-query-tuning-and-performance-optimization).
  - Aug 2021. [Spring: Framework in Depth](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-framework-in-depth-2)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Spring-Demo-Application) for exercises.
  - Aug 2021. [Spring: Test-Driven Development with JUnit](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/spring-test-driven-development-with-junit).
  - Aug 2021. [Introduction to Linux](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/introduction-to-linux).
  - Aug 2021. [Programming Foundations: Algorithms](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/programming-foundations-algorithms)
    with my [repository](https://github.com/Yevhen-Tkachenko-1/Java-SDK-Research-and-Play) for exercises.
  - Aug 2021. [Practical Test-Driven Development for Java Programmers](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/practical-test-driven-development-for-java-programmers).
  - Jul 2021. [Learning Cloud Computing: Core Concepts](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/learning-cloud-computing-core-concepts-13966302).

#### EPAM Learning. Completed educational program:

- Jun 2022 - Aug 2022. Cloud Platforms for developers - AWS Developer.<br>
  Completed 7 self-study modules with a Mentor review:
    - AWS Essential, AWS Account
    - IAM, S3, EC2, VPC
    - Cloud Formation

#### Book Library

- 2023\. Designing Data-Intensive Applications - Martin Kleppmann.
- 2020\. Java XML and JSON: Document processing for Java SE - Jeff Friesen.
- 2019\. Kotlin - Head First.
- 2019\. Android Development - Head First.
- 2019\. Design Patterns - Head First.
- 2019\. Pro JavaFX 8: Building Desktop, Mobile, and Embedded Java Clients - Apress.
- 2018\. Learn JavaFX 8: Building User Experience and Interfaces - Kishori Sharan.
- 2018\. JavaFX 8: Introduction By Example - Apress.
- 2018\. Java: A Beginner's Guide - Herbert Schildt.
- 2018\. Effective Java - Joshua Bloch.
- 2018\. The C++ Programming Language - Bjarne Stroustrup.
- 2018\. The C Programming Language - Brian W.Kernighan, Dennis M.Ritchie.

# Project Changing

![picture](resources/pictures/memes/Meme-Handshake.PNG)

My thoughts on changing the project: 
- When is the right time to look for new opportunities?
- What to check to find the best fit?

Personally, I really like stable companies and projects where I can work for a long period, e.g. 2 years and more.
Long term assignment is profitable for both: developer and company.
For example, working on large enterprise apps, first you have to spend some time and resources to get to know the project.
It's kinda an investment that later brings benefits such as satisfaction from your work, 
possibilities to make bigger impact and finally, bringing more value to the project.
Even when building large app from scratch, you need to define the architecture and establish the development processes 
that is also beneficial only in long term run.

Such commitment also has other side.
That's great if you are always excited about work you do.
However, at some projects, at some point (for example in 2 years of development),
you may find yourself doing the same job day-to-day with no opportunity to grow.
In case this can't be changed due to project limitations I would consider to switch to another project.

I realize importance and risks of such decision for myself, my current project and future project.
In such cases, first of all, I talk about my concerns with project managers.
If we can't find solution, there are many other projects to join.
I try to find the best fit and finally accept the offer very carefully.
Joining new project is weighted decision that means I commit for long term cooperation.

So, I have some points to check when applying for new projects:

- Why is position open?
- Project Domain: what is it about? what is outcome? which impact does it make?
- Tech Stack, e.g. key language, frameworks, versions, databases.
- Development Type, e.g. full cycle, support, migration.
- Development Responsibilities, e.g. design, research, implementation, delivery.
- What do regular tasks look like? Any specific work scope for newcomer? Any specific release dates? Any urgent deadlines?
- Development Methodology, e.g. Scrum. Any specific processes? How many regular meetings?
- How is the task formulated? How developer is involved in requirements clarification, testing and deployment?
- Project Team, e.g. size, kinds of specialists, presents of local and foreign colleagues.
- Interaction with customers and English-speaking colleagues.
- Is work laptop provided? Which OS, e.g. Windows, Linux, Mac.
- Project Tools, e.g. IDE, VCS, apps for chatting, online meetings, task tracking.
- Are there less experienced colleagues to play mentor role?
- Are there more experienced colleagues to ask for help?
- Work hours (time zone dependencies).
- General work tempo: Any constant pressure to be fast? Any lack of tasks or presence of complex processes, so it gets slow?
- Is there overtime work? If so, is it compensated?
- Is there activity tracker, e.g. mouse movement tracking, screen capture?
- Onboarding: Are there any flow and materials to help newcomer understand project? How much time allocated?
- Probation period: Is it present? How long does it take? In which period is it expected for newcomer to get started with regular pace?
- Project Stability: Will there be work in 1 year?
- Project Perspectives: Is there space to grow and take more complex tasks and next level responsibilities?
- Office, its location, workplace and benefits.
- Non-project activities, e.g. team-buildings, events, conferences, hackathons.
- Education support, sport compensation, health insurance.
- Are there any business trip? (especially interesting if it helps you meet your implementation in real life)
- Additional bonuses for good performance, successfully released features, resolving additional tasks asked by customer, providing better solution. 
- Compensation Range for the position.
- Compensation Review: What to do to get it? How often? Regular or by asking? Which amount is it possible to have in 2 years?

# Programming Habits

Some tips and approaches for programmers that I noticed and personally found useful:

- Work from office helps be more efficient and keep work-life balance.
  Also, it's more secure and company is less concerned about employee's doings.
- Refactoring helps fix bugs.
  For example, in `Java` it's nice to use `Stream API`, but sometimes it's overcomplicated.
  When we have many invocations in a row, such code is not possible to understand.
  I would rather have plain Java implementation then complex constructions.
  This way, refactoring helped me several times to find an issue.
- Writing documentation helps better understand what you've done,
  structurise gained knowledge and release memory.
  Once important details are covered, you can forget about it and easily switch to the next task.
- Adjusting the video playback speed helps learn quickly.
  I like watching tutorials, but sometimes it's very detailed and takes much time.
  Advice is quite simple but helped me a lot.
  Most recordings have good quality, so it's possible to speed up playback to 1.5 without losing understanding.
  With this my learning becomes faster and as a result, I feel comfortable to continue learning this way.
